session initiation protocol

layer 7 - application layer 

voip
media communication session and is primarily used to set up and terminate voice or video calls.
between two points create, modify, and terminate a multimedia session over the Internet Protocol

IEFTF - RFC 3261


client - server architecture
SIP embodies client-server architecture and the use of URL and URI from HTTP and a text encoding scheme and a header style from SMTP

sip is independent of beneath layer protocols - tcp/udp

Typically, the SIP protocol is used for internet telephony and multimedia distribution between two or more endpoints.
 For example, one person can initiate a telephone call to another person using SIP,
 or someone may create a conference call with many participants.
 

very simple, with a limited set of commands

SIP URI - uniform resource identifier
network elements

Total 5 elements

user agent - It is the endpoint  ,  could be a softphone, a mobile, or a laptop.
User Agent Client (UAC) - sends request & receive response
User Agent Server (UAS) - receives request & send response

caller - client , callee - server

proxy server
Basically the role of a proxy server is much like a router. - need to forward
intelligent enough to send
maximum of 70 proxy servers in between a source and a destination.
stateless - doesnt store anything.. simple forwards
stateful - store the messages can be used for future refer

Registrar Server
every user in the same domain has to regiter with this server.. accepts the registration  
It stores the URI and the location of users in a database to help others

redirect server
The redirect server receives requests and looks up the intended recipient 
of the request in the location database created by the registrar.


location server
The location server provides information about a caller's possible locations to the redirect and proxy servers
Only a proxy server or a redirect server can contact a location server.

SIP architecture

TRANSACTION User - Each of the SIP entities

TRANSACTION LAYER - A transaction is a request sent by a Client transaction (using the transport layer) to a Server transaction

TRansport LAYER - It defines how a Client sends requests and receives responses and 
how a Server receives requests and sends responses over the network

Syntax & encoding -  Its encoding is specified using an augmented Backus-Naur Form grammar (BNF).


SIP messages are of two types − requests and responses.

